Introduction
Background
Digital health interventions are increasingly being designed to
help people manage their health [1]. Many of these digital health
interventions seek to facilitate behavior change and are often
referred to as "digital behavior change interventions" (DBCIs)
[2]. Among the wide range of DBCIs available, mobile health
(mHealth) interventions have the potential to improve the reach
and efficiency of health support owing to the widespread use
of mobile phones [3,4]. Despite the potential impact of mHealth
DBCIs, there is mixed evidence on whether they are effective
at changing health behavior and improving health outcomes
[3]. One concern is that patients and the public struggle to
"effectively engage" with mHealth DBCIs [5,6]. Effective
engagement with mHealth DBCIs has been defined as
necessitating both microengagement with the mHealth interface
itself (eg, logging into the app, entering data) and
macroengagement with the behavior changes the mHealth
intervention aims to support (eg, performing the exercises
prescribed by the app) [6]. Therefore, for an mHealth DBCI to
"effectively engage" users, it must be designed with engaging
user-centered features to support microengagement and
evidence-based behavior change techniques (BCTs) to support
macroengagement.

To design effective behavior change content, there is evidence
that mHealth interventions developed using the behavior change
theory and BCTs are more likely to be effective than those
without [7]. Behavioral scientists have been developing methods
to systematically transition from diagnosing a behavioral
problem to designing a behavior change intervention [8-11],
which can be referred to as Behavioral Design (BD) [12].
Bondaronek and colleagues [13] provide several examples of
how BD can be operationalized in publicly available physical
activity apps. For instance, the app "Movesum" uses BCT 1.1
Goal Setting (Behavior) in the form of an easily adjustable step
count goal [13,14]. BCT 1.1 Goal Setting (Behavior) is
particularly useful when users struggle to plan for what they
want to achieve or how they want to act [15]. Overall, BD can
be operationalized in diverse ways but generally involves the
following steps: (1) understanding the behavioral problem, (2)
making a behavioral diagnosis for the target behavior using
behavioral theories, models, and frameworks, (3) identifying
relevant BCTs using taxonomies and classifications, (4)
translating BCTs into intervention features, and (5) evaluating
behavior change outcomes.

To design engaging user-centered mHealth features, there is
evidence that mHealth interventions developed using personand
user-centered design processes are more likely to facilitate
user engagement and improve intervention effectiveness [16,17].
Person- and user-centered design processes vary in terms of
their operationalization but always put user needs at the forefront
of design. Design Thinking (DT) is a common framework used
in design science to guide creative user-centric designs for
mHealth [18]. Design thinkers can use a range of approaches
during the design process to ensure user-centeredness, such as
directly involving users in app development or referring to
Nielsen's 10 usability heuristics [19]. The Nielsen Norman
Group provides several detailed examples of how different
usability principles can be implemented in application design
[20,21]. Overall, DT can be executed in different ways but
generally involves the following steps: (1) empathizing with
the user, (2) defining the user requirements, (3) ideating
functional concepts, (4) prototyping the user-centered solution,
and (5) testing the solution to see if users'needs are met. Despite
knowledge about what constitutes "effective engagement" with
mHealth DBCIs, a recent scoping review of DBCIs developed
over the past 2 decades found that most design teams make
limited use of BCTs and do not adequately describe the methods
they employ to meet users' needs [22]. This scoping review
concluded that DBCI practitioners have little guidance on how
to integrate best practices from behavioral science and design
science, and a need exists to develop guidance to support them
through this process [22]. This conclusion has been reiterated
across the literature, with experts agreeing that methodological
guidance is required to design effectively engaging DBCIs [23].
Experts have also begun to discuss similarities and differences
between approaches used by design scientists and behavioral
scientists [24-26]. For example, design scientists often rely on
end users to ideate content based on their stated preferences,
needs, and recommendations. They iteratively build
interventions by using ongoing feedback, with a focus on
producing creative solutions that users will enjoy (ie, ensuring
the users are microengaged). In contrast, behavioral scientists
focus on producing solutions that will nudge behavior change
(ie, ensuring the users are macroengaged). Behavioral scientists
often rely on theory- and evidence-based linkages to understand
behavioral problems and select intervention content. They
rigorously test solutions against their ability to effect behavior
change and not necessarily how and whether the user is engaging
with them. Nonetheless, both approaches emphasize the
importance of understanding and diagnosing the problem at
hand before proposing, designing, and implementing a solution.
Both approaches also aim to ensure that the resulting solutions
are designed purposefully to achieve user engagement.
Amalgamating best practices from DT and BD may be mutually
beneficial and help design teams develop more "effectively
engaging" DBCIs [24-26]. There is currently a knowledge gap
with respect to how best practices from DT and BD can be
integrated to develop "effectively engaging" mHealth DBCIs.
Specifically, little is known about how DT and BD can be
blended throughout the mHealth DBCI design process to ensure
that microengagement and macroengagement needs will be met.

Aims and Objectives
The aim of this scoping review was to identify and map how
design teams have integrated best practices from BD and DT
throughout the mHealth DBCI design process. By clarifying
how BD and DT can be integrated, this review aimed to provide
guidance on how mHealth DBCIs can be designed to more
"effectively engage" patients and the public. This scoping review
addressed the following questions: (1) what are the main
characteristics of the studies that integrated BD and DT during
the mHealth DBCI design process? (2) what theories, models,
and frameworks did design teams use during the mHealth DBCI
design process? (3) what methods did design teams use to
integrate BD and DT during the mHealth DBCI design process?
and (4) what are the key design challenges, implementation
considerations, and future directions for the integration of BD
and DT during mHealth DBCI design? 