Methods
Study Design
The Joanna Briggs Institute reviewer's manual was used to
guide the conduct of this scoping review [27]. The scoping
review follows the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items
for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for
Scoping Reviews) checklist (see Multimedia Appendix 1) [28].
A scoping review protocol was drafted internally among key
stakeholders, including mHealth software architects, mHealth
design team managers, an information specialist, and several
researchers with experience in the topic.

Search Strategy
The search strategy was developed by the lead author in
collaboration with an information specialist. Initial searches
were conducted in journals highly relevant to our research topic
(eg, Cochrane, JMIR journals) to identify suitable search terms.
A series of initial searches in MEDLINE were completed to
analyze the text words contained in the title and abstracts of
retrieved papers and index terms used to describe the papers.
A final list of search terms was compiled, and a search of the
databases MEDLINE, PsycINFO, EMBASE, and CINAHL was
completed on May 15, 2021. A handsearch of Journal of
Medical Internet Research was also completed on May 15,
2021, as this was recognized as a journal highly relevant to the
research topic. A gray literature search and a review of paper
reference lists were not conducted. This decision was made to
tighten the scope of the review around the research objectives,
given time and resource constraints. Search terms combined
the following topics: mHealth, behavior change, and design
thinking. The full search strategy can be seen in Multimedia
Appendix 2.

Eligibility Criteria
Included papers had to be primary studies, where a full-text
paper described the design process of an mHealth DBCI. More
specifically, included papers had to describe how BD and DT
practices were integrated throughout the design of an mHealth
DBCI that aimed to support behavior change in patients or the
public. To meet these criteria, the papers had to clearly describe
their mHealth DBCI design process, addressing at least 3 of the
5 design process steps suggested in DT (empathizing, defining,
ideating, prototyping, and testing) [18]. In addition, papers had
to clearly describe how behavior change theories, models,
frameworks, or techniques were incorporated into the mHealth
design process. Studies that only used behavior change insights
to evaluate the mHealth DBCI after development were
excluded. Furthermore, studies that described an mHealth
intervention designed to provide a psychological treatment (eg,
cognitive behavioral therapy) without describing how their
design process utilized behavior change theories, models, and
frameworks to support "effective engagement" were also
excluded. No limitations were put on the year of publication;
however, only papers published in English were included. To
be eligible, the intervention must have been an mHealth
intervention, defined by the World Health Organization as
"health care and public health practice supported by mobile
devices such as mobile phones, tablets, patient monitoring
devices, and other wireless devices" [4]. The intervention must
also have been designed for use by patients or the public. If the
intervention was designed only for use by health care
professionals, it was excluded.

Evidence Selection
Studies from the database searches were handled using
Covidence (Veritas Health Innovation Ltd) reference
management software. Papers were deduplicated and imported
for screening using Covidence. A 2-level screening was
performed after duplicate removal. During level 1 screening,
titles and abstracts were screened using the eligibility criteria.
Publications with title or abstract not meeting the eligibility
criteria were excluded. During level 2 screening, full-text papers
that passed level 1 were screened. Studies that met the eligibility
criteria were included for full data extraction. Consistent with
PRISMA-ScR, reasons for exclusion were recorded at the
full-text level [28]. Prior to the selection of sources, 2 reviewers
completed a pilot screening of 50 titles and abstracts to assess
the reliability of the eligibility criteria. Interrater agreement for
study inclusion was calculated using percentage agreement. If
agreement was lower than 80%, the eligibility criteria would
be clarified and another pilot test would occur. All interrater
discrepancies during level 1 and 2 evidence selection were
resolved between the 2 reviewers upon discussion. The 2
reviewers screened all titles, abstracts, and full-text papers for
inclusion.

Data Extraction
The reviewers extracted data from the eligible papers by using
2 data extraction forms. The first data extraction form elicited
the main study characteristics, including lead author, year of
publication, journal of publication, country of origin, study
design, study purpose, target user population, the health issue,
the target health behavior, mHealth DBCI summary, mHealth
DBCI design process duration, and the members of the mHealth
DBCI design team. The second data extraction form elicited
details about how BD and DT were integrated throughout the
design process, which included extracting types of theories,
models, and frameworks used; the approaches design teams
used to integrate best practices from BD with DT over the course
of the mHealth DBCI design process, key challenges in the
mHealth DBCI design process, key implementation
considerations for mHealth DBCIs, and future considerations
for the mHealth DBCI design. The data extraction forms were
drafted, revised, and agreed upon by the 2 reviewers after an
iterative process of implementing the extraction forms on a
sample of papers.

Analysis and Presentation of Results
A descriptive analysis of the included papers was conducted to
meet the objectives of the scoping review. Narrative
descriptions, frequency calculations, and visual diagrams were
utilized to communicate the results. 