Results
Evidence Selection
A total of 1912 papers were identified from the searches. After
651 duplicate studies were removed, 1252 papers were screened
based on their titles and abstracts, with 255 full-text papers
meeting the eligibility criteria. After full-text review, 75 papers
fulfilled the eligibility criteria and were included in the final
review. Figure 1 shows the PRISMA-ScR flow diagram
illustrating the paper selection process [28].

Figure 1. PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews) flow diagram of the
study selection process.

Main Characteristics of the Included Papers
All 75 primary studies were published between 2012 and 2021,
with a surge from 2018 onward (51/75, 68%). The Journal of
Medical Internet Research and its sister journals accounted for
almost 55% (41/75) of the papers included. The United States
(14/75, 19%), the United Kingdom (13/75, 17%), Australia
(10/75, 13%), and Holland (9/75, 12%) were the most common
study locations. The target population of the mHealth DBCIs
varied, with the most common being patients with cardiovascular
issues (7/75, 9%), patients with diabetes (5/75, 7%), adults with
overweight and obesity (5/75, 7%), adults who smoke (5/75,
7%), adults with poor physical activity levels (5/75, 7%), and
cancer survivors (5/75, 7%). The target health behaviors
addressed also varied, with the most prominent being improved
physical activity (18/75, 24%), improved diet (17/75, 23%),
disease self-management (12/75, 16%), preventative health
behaviors (6/75, 8%), adherence to medication (5/75, 7%),
adherence to rehabilitation programming (5/75, 7%), and
smoking cessation (5/75, 7%). mHealth DBCI design teams
were multidisciplinary in their membership. Members included
researchers, patients, caregivers, community partners, clinicians,
technology developers, and experts in behavior change, health
psychology, health communications, health promotion, and
health informatics. Topic experts were also relied on depending
on the type of intervention (eg, diabetes educators). Software
engineers, computer scientists, videographers, product designers,
and graphic designers were brought to assist with the
development of the mHealth intervention, although it was
usually unclear when they were included. The design process
duration was usually not reported. Out of the 14 interventions
that clearly reported design process duration, there was a large
variation in timespan, ranging from less than 3 months to
upwards of 4 years. Multimedia Appendix 3 provides an
overview of the main study characteristics, and Multimedia
Appendix 4 provides a full list of the 75 studies included.

Theories, Models, and Frameworks Used During
Design
Studies used a variety of theories, models, and frameworks in
their mHealth DBCI design process. Theories, models, and
frameworks were most often used to (1) guide the design process
itself, (2) conceptualize the behavior change problem, (3)
identify relevant BCTs, and (4) evaluate ideas for their
applicability, feasibility, or potential effectiveness. Figure 2
summarizes the types of theories, models, and frameworks used
in the mHealth DBCI design process, and Multimedia Appendix
5 provides a detailed breakdown.

Figure 2. Theories, models, and frameworks used in mobile health digital behavior change intervention design. ABACUS: App Behavior Change
Scale; APEASE: Acceptability, Practicability, Effectiveness, Affordability, Side-effects, and Equity; BCT: behavior change technique; COM-B:
capability, opportunity, motivation-behavior; DBCI: digital behavior change intervention; IDEAS: Integrate, Design, Assess, and Share; mHealth:
mobile health; MoSCoW: must-have, should-have, could-have, and won't-have, or will not have right now; PRECEDE: Predisposing, Reinforcing, and
Enabling Constructs in Educational Diagnosis and Evaluation; PROCEED: Policy, Regulatory, and Organizational Constructs in Educational and
Environmental Development.

Methods Used to Integrate BD and DT During the
mHealth DBCI Design Process
Regardless of the theories, models, and frameworks teams used
to design their mHealth DBCIs, they integrated best practices
from BD and DT in notable ways. We refer to the mixing of
BD and DT throughout the mHealth DBCI design process as
the "Behavioral Design Thinking Approach" (see Figure 3).
The Behavioral Design Thinking Approach presents a new
method of designing mHealth DBCIs, which is the result of
merging together best practices from BD and DT. Multimedia
Appendix 6 provides further detail on the Behavioral Design
Thinking Approach along with several specific examples on
how BD and DT can be integrated.

Generally, 5 steps are followed in the Behavioral Design
Thinking Approach: (1) empathize with users and their behavior
change needs, (2) define user and behavior change requirements,
(3) ideate user-centered features and behavior change content,
(4) prototype a user-centered solution that supports behavior
change, and (5) test the solution against users' needs and for its
behavior change potential. Across these steps, studies integrated
DT and BD in different ways, often "driving" their mixing in
a certain direction. The 3 ways DT and BD were mixed included
(1) DT and BD approaches were equally weighted (notation =
DT+BD), (2) DT drove the approach, with concepts from BD
supplementing the DT approaches (notation = DT→BD), or (3)
BD drove the approach, with concepts from DT supplementing
the BD approaches (notation = BD→DT). Overall, studies
tended to "empathize" by blending DT and BD equally
(DT+BD), "define" by blending DT and BD equally (DT+BD),
"ideate" by driving the process by BD (BD→DT), "prototype"
by driving the process by DT (DT→ BD), and "test" by driving
the process by DT (DT→BD). These approaches are summarized
in the text below.

Figure 3. The behavioral design thinking approach [5,6]. BCT: behavior change technique; DBCI: digital behavior change intervention; mHealth:
mobile health; UI: user interface; UX: user experience.

Behavioral Design Thinking Approach
Behavioral Design Thinking Step 1: Empathize With
Users and Their Behavior Change Needs
Most studies described how they empathized with users while
simultaneously conceptualizing the behavior change problem
(66/75, 88%), blending concepts from DT and BD harmoniously
(notation = DT+BD). To empathize with the users who would
perform a target behavior, studies analyzed users' experiences,
perceptions, beliefs, needs, and preferences with their health
issues, health behaviors, health interventions, and mobile app
usage. To understand the behaviors that the users will perform,
studies examined applicable target health behaviors, behavioral
determinants, BCTs, and behavioral theories, models, and
frameworks. Finally, to understand the context that the users
perform the behavior in, studies assessed current practices and
programs, relevant personal, social, environmental, and
structural factors, and pertinent clinical, usage, and behavioral
aims. Studies used primary research (eg, interviews, focus
groups, surveys, creative workshops) and secondary research
(eg, secondary data analyses, literature reviews, reviews of other
interventions, guidelines, practices) to empathize. Studies not
only involved patient and public end users during this step
(48/75, 64%), but also involved health care practitioners,
community partners, behavioral experts, design scientists, and
technology developers. To directly involve patients and the
public, studies used a variety of tools such as interview guides
informed by behavior change models and visual presentations
of apps to stimulate collaborative discussion.

Behavioral Design Thinking Step 2: Define User and
Behavior Change Requirements
Studies tended to analyze the empathy results in order to define
system requirements that would meet both users' needs and
behavior change needs (notation = DT+BD). Studies tended to
define user-centered requirements by sorting users' stated
preferences into key themes to be addressed. Studies tended to
define the behavior change requirements by using the empathy
results to formulate a "behavioral diagnosis," which outlines
the behavioral determinants that need to be addressed. When
studies organized the requirements into an amalgamated format,
DT or BD usually drove the organization. For example, some
studies used tables organized by the relevant behavioral
determinants, whereby they would then list corresponding user
quotes and resultant requirements alongside the behavioral
determinants. Other studies opted to use the requirements to
create holistic user personas and scenarios. Regardless of the
approach to amalgamate and make sense of the requirements,
the requirement lists were often lengthy and needed to be
refined. Refining the requirements involved (1) identifying the
requirements that met the project scope and objectives, (2) using
feasibility criteria to refine and select certain requirements, (3)
consulting experts and patient and public users to prioritize the
requirements, and (4) ranking the most important requirements
according to their likelihood to elicit behavior change, alignment
with current practices, adaptability to a digital interface,
acceptability to users, and compatibility with data collection
needs.

Behavioral Design Thinking Step 3: Ideate
User-Centered Features and Behavior Change Content
Most studies described how they translated requirements into
design content and features by using ideation methods (67/75,
89%). Generally, studies drove their ideation methods using
BD (notation = BD→DT). For instance, several studies relied
only on BD to ideate the relevant behavior change content
(19/67, 28%). These studies used researcher-led "behavioral
mapping" to match relevant behavior change determinants with
BCTs by using evidence-based taxonomies and tested linkages.
It was often unclear, however, exactly how these studies
translated the identified BCTs into content for the mobile app.
Other studies attempted to completement BD approaches with
DT methods during their ideation (48/67, 72%). In these cases,
studies would creatively ideate design content and features that
would support behavior change while also meeting users'needs
and preferences. These studies relied on different techniques
such as design team brainstorming, expert stakeholder panels,
technology partner consultation, and end user co-design efforts.
Design teams tended to brainstorm how the behavior change
insights could be integrated with users' preferences, existing
programming, norms in mHealth design, and clinical
management needs. Stakeholder panels would discuss all the
requirements and consider the most appropriate strategies
(dosage, delivery, organization, and personalization).
Technology partners would specify how requirements could be
operationalized within an mHealth app. Patient and public
partners would contribute to co-design sessions to create and
reflect on ideas, content, and designs. Approximately 34%
(23/75) of the studies appeared to directly involve patient and
public users during this step to ensure that the ideated content
met their unique needs.

Behavioral Design Thinking Step 4: Prototype a Solution
That Is User-Centered and Supports Behavior Change
Many studies did not clearly describe the prototyping methods
they used to translate ideated content and features into functional
solutions (28/75, 36%). Studies that described their prototyping
approach tended to drive their prototyping by using DT (notation
= DT→BD). For instance, a large proportion of studies only
used prototyping methods, tools, and aids traditional to DT
(37/47, 79%). DT prototyping methods usually involved iterative
prototyping, feedback, and refinement, often utilizing sprint,
scrum, or agile methods. DT prototyping tools included
wireframing, paper prototyping, application flowcharts, and use
case scenarios. DT prototyping aids included tools such as
Nielsen's usability heuristics [19] and the Eight Golden Rules
[29]. Despite reliance on DT for prototyping, several studies
supplemented DT methods with BD considerations to ensure
that behavior change content would be operationalized within
the prototyped solution (10/47, 21%). For example, to
supplement DT prototyping methods, some studies utilized BCT
codevelopment to ensure that BCTs were not lost in translation
during technological development. To supplement DT
prototyping tools, some studies elected to make BCT flowcharts
to clarify how the BCTs would be interacted with. To
supplement DT prototyping aids, some studies also used the
Behavioral Intervention Technology Model [30] or the
Persuasive Systems Design Framework [31], which were
behaviorally informed models used to guide feature selection.
Among the studies that clearly described their prototyping
methods, just over half appeared to directly involve patient and
public end users in their prototyping process (26/47, 55%).

Behavioral Design Thinking Step 5: Test Solution
Against User Needs and for Its Behavior Change
Potential
A large proportion of studies did not clearly describe how they
tested their mHealth DBCI solution within the design process
(18/75, 24%). Studies that described their testing methods tended
to drive their testing by methods traditional to DT (notation
=DT→BD). For instance, a considerable number of studies
relied exclusively on DT evaluation approaches such as heuristic
evaluation, usability testing, expert evaluation, and pilot testing
to evaluate the solutions against users' needs (33/57, 58%).
Despite reliance on DT for testing, some studies supplemented
these testing methods with BD considerations to evaluate the
solution for its behavior change potential (24/57, 42%). For
instance, in addition to traditional DT heuristic evaluation, some
studies conducted a BCT evaluation to assess the final solution
for the presence of known BCTs. In addition to traditional DT
usability testing, some studies "tagged" BCT components within
the app to follow how users engaged, accepted, and perceived
the intended BCTs. Some studies also conducted posttest user
interviews directed by interview guides based on constructs of
a behavioral model. In addition to traditional DT expert
evaluations, some studies brought on behavioral science experts
to assess the extent to which the intervention content had fidelity
to the intended BCTs. Experts also could assess the quality of
the mHealth DBCI by using the App Behavior Change Scale
[32]. If pilot tests were conducted, specific behavior change
outcomes could be evaluated in addition to traditional usage
metrics. Metrics included change in knowledge, change in
intentions, state of behavior change, user experience with BCTs,
perceived potential of BCTs, and user engagement with BCTs.

Design Challenges, Implementation Considerations,
and Future Directions
In addition to describing their design process, studies also
identified key implementation considerations, design challenges,
and future directions for mHealth DBCI design. These have
been summarized in Textbox 1. Multimedia Appendix 7 expands
on these results in further detail.

Textbox 1. Key design challenges, implementation considerations, and future directions.

Design challenges
• Design process can be time and resource consuming, especially when the design approach is unclear.
• Recruiting and involving representative end users and key stakeholders can be difficult.
• Conflicting ideas can result from integrating behavioral theory, user needs, and stakeholder views.
• The translation of behavior change techniques into actual mobile health (mHealth) digital behavior change intervention (DBCI) features and
content can be confusing.
• The design process is time limited and usually may not allow for comprehensive evaluation.
• Integrating the mHealth DBCI into clinical practice can be complex.
• mHealth platforms come with their own technical challenges and limiting factors.

Implementation considerations
• Evaluate potential implementation barriers and facilitators during the "testing" step.
• Facilitate early stakeholder buy-in.
• Plan for the integration of the mHealth DBCI into clinical systems.
• Use feasibility criteria throughout the entire design process.
• Use an implementation plan (marketing, dissemination, onboarding, adoption, usage, sustainability).

Future directions
• Guidance on the design process for mHealth DBCIs.
• Guidance on how to operationalize behavioral change techniques within mHealth DBCIs in a user-friendly way.
• Guidance on how to meaningfully involve users and stakeholders in the design process.
• Guidance on how to tailor mHealth DBCIs to meet behavioral, personal, and clinical needs. 