Discussion
Primary Findings
This paper presents a systematic scoping review of 75 papers
that described their design process for developing an mHealth
DBCI. This review addressed a gap in the literature about how
mHealth interventions can be designed to integrate practices
from DT and BD. Although the number of mHealth DBCIs
seems to be growing, the results highlight substantial
heterogeneity in the methods studies used to design them. This
scoping review aimed to clarify, map, and synthesize the
different methods that can be used to design mHealth DBCIs.
A new consolidated approach to mHealth DBCI design is
presented—the Behavioral Design Thinking Approach. A large
proportion of mHealth DBCIs were designed to facilitate dietand exercise-related behavior change. Similar findings were
noted in a scoping review on DBCI design over the past 2
decades [22]. Nonetheless, the results point to a lack of clarity
about how mHealth DBCI content and features were ideated
and operationalized. Several studies in this review struggled to
translate BCTs into user-friendly mHealth features. Studies also
ended up trying to fit several BCTs within the mHealth app,
increasing app complexity. To simplify the user experience,
several studies noted that personalization may be an important
future direction for the field. Tailoring mHealth content to users'
unique behavioral, clinical, and personal needs can help facilitate
the delivery of features to support effective engagement [33].
Ensuring that design teams use appropriate questions and metrics
to inform personalization will be essential. This further
exemplifies the need for the meaningful involvement of patients
and the public in mHealth DBCI design. Regarding the
meaningful involvement of patients and the public in the
mHealth DBCI design process, this review found that patients
and the public were most often involved as participants (eg, in
user interviews, surveys, testing) rather than as partners on the
design team itself. Patients and the public appeared to have
minimal direct input on design decision-making throughout the
mHealth DBCI design process. Growing calls are being made
to prioritize the unique perspectives of patients and the public
during design [16,17]. Involving end users in the design process
has been suggested to increase the effectiveness, relevance, and
appropriateness of mHealth DBCIs [16,17]. Nonetheless, design
teams appear to have little guidance on how to meaningfully
engage patient and public end users in the design process itself
[34-37].

Theories, Models, and Frameworks Used During
Design
Regarding the theories, models, and frameworks that studies
used during mHealth DBCI design, design teams appeared to
face a vast array of these "tools" from different fields, created
for different purposes. Although studies reported benefiting
from the structure that these tools offered, a best practice
approach for integrating DT and BD insights to develop
"effectively engaging" mHealth DBCIs did not appear to exist.
This scoping review offers a classification of the types of
theories, models, and frameworks that teams can use during
mHealth DBCI design and offers a consolidated approach for
guiding the design process in general.

Methods Used to Integrate BD and DT During the
mHealth DBCI Design Process
During the integration of DT and BD throughout the mHealth
DBCI design, key similarities and differences between the 2
approaches were observed. During the empathizing step, users'
preferences often differed from what was needed to change their
behavior. Balancing user-stated preferences with evidence-based
behavior change strategies and mHealth platform requirements
was a challenge for teams. During the defining step, it was clear
that blending DT and BD perspectives resulted in lengthy and
complex requirements. Involving users and topic experts to
refine these requirements appeared to be a helpful strategy.
During ideation, BD relied on evidence-based linkages to ideate
content, whereas DT relied on iterative brainstorming and
collaborative creation. Studies reconciled these different
approaches by starting with BD to develop a list of relevant
BCTs and then using DT to creatively integrate BCTs and other
requirements into the mHealth DBCI. The prototyping step was
the least well described among studies but usually relied on
approaches traditional to DT. Studies that brought on their
technology partner only at the prototyping stage often had to
add additional methods to ensure that BCTs were
operationalized as imagined. The testing step was also
dominated by DT, as it was challenging to meaningfully test
for behavior change outcomes within the time constraints
imposed by the design process. Nonetheless, several measures
were used by studies to assess the solution's potential to support
behavior change.

Design Challenges, Implementation Considerations,
and Future Directions
Finally, regarding key implementation considerations, design
challenges, and future directions, several cross-cutting themes
were identified. In addition to ensuring that BD and DT insights
were incorporated into the mHealth DBCI design, many teams
noted that planning for implementation of the mHealth DBCI
was just as important for ensuring success. Using insights from
BD and DT may also be relevant in designing an implementation
plan for the mHealth DBCI. Implementation planning appears
to be particularly complex in this context, as many mHealth
DBCIs need to be integrated with existing clinical systems and
norms. Regardless of how evidence-based and user-friendly the
mHealth DBCI may be, if stakeholder buy-in, system adaptation,
and clinical sustainability issues are not taken into consideration,
the mHealth DBCIs are likely to fail. Future research must
address the lack of guidance design teams have in developing
and implementing effective mHealth DBCIs. Particularly, design
teams have little guidance on the "tools" (ie, theories, models,
and frameworks) they can use, how to meaningfully involve
patient and public end users, and how to tailor mHealth DBCI
content to meet behavioral, personal, and clinical needs.

Limitations
The most significant limitation of this scoping review was that
the inclusion criteria necessitated that each included paper had
to be a full-text primary study that clearly described the mHealth
design process. This decision was made to tighten the scope of
this review and owing to limited time and resources. Although
the systematic database search was not supplemented by a gray
literature search or a review of reference lists, the 75 included
papers offer a diverse range of insights that meet the research
objectives while addressing a prominent gap in the literature.
It should be noted that the original scope of this review included
a database, reference list, and gray literature search to identify
available design frameworks that could be used by design teams
to integrate BD and DT insights during mHealth development.
Presenting these results alongside the data extracted from 75
primary studies was beyond the scope of this paper. The results
of this scoping review are only inclusive of studies written in
English; therefore, findings may not be generalizable
internationally.

Implications
The Behavioral Design Thinking Approach offers a way forward
in the field of mHealth DBCI design. mHealth design teams
may consider using the insights presented in the Behavioral
Design Thinking Approach to inform their future work. mHealth
design teams may also find it helpful to reflect on the different
types of theories, models, and frameworks they can use during
the design process, as well as the key challenges they may face
along the way. The findings presented in this review may also
be relevant to researchers in the fields of behavioral science and
design science who are interested in interdisciplinary
collaboration. It is reasonable to assume that breaking down
silos between these 2 fields may improve the success of mHealth
DBCIs. Overall, the main benefits of this research include (1)
clarifying what approaches can be used to design mHealth
DBCIs, (2) promoting transparency in the choices that studies
must make during the mHealth DBCI design process, and (3)
enabling future researchers to test what design approaches are
the most effective to develop "effectively engaging" mHealth
DBCIs. 