Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for
Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) Checklist
SECTION ITEM PRISMA-ScR CHECKLIST ITEM REPORTED
ON PAGE #
TITLE
Title 1 Identify the report as a scoping review.
ABSTRACT
Structured
summary
2
Provide a structured summary that includes (as
applicable): background, objectives, eligibility criteria,
sources of evidence, charting methods, results, and
conclusions that relate to the review questions and
objectives.
INTRODUCTION
Rationale 3
Describe the rationale for the review in the context of
what is already known. Explain why the review
questions/objectives lend themselves to a scoping
review approach.
Objectives 4
Provide an explicit statement of the questions and
objectives being addressed with reference to their key
elements (e.g., population or participants, concepts, and
context) or other relevant key elements used to
conceptualize the review questions and/or objectives.
METHODS
Protocol and
registration 5
Indicate whether a review protocol exists; state if and
where it can be accessed (e.g., a Web address); and if
available, provide registration information, including the
registration number.
Eligibility criteria 6
Specify characteristics of the sources of evidence used
as eligibility criteria (e.g., years considered, language,
and publication status), and provide a rationale.
Information
sources* 7
Describe all information sources in the search (e.g.,
databases with dates of coverage and contact with
authors to identify additional sources), as well as the
date the most recent search was executed.
Search 8
Present the full electronic search strategy for at least 1
database, including any limits used, such that it could be
repeated.
Selection of
sources of
evidence†
9 State the process for selecting sources of evidence (i.e.,
screening and eligibility) included in the scoping review.
Data charting
process‡ 10
Describe the methods of charting data from the included
sources of evidence (e.g., calibrated forms or forms that
have been tested by the team before their use, and
whether data charting was done independently or in
duplicate) and any processes for obtaining and
confirming data from investigators.
Data items 11 List and define all variables for which data were sought
and any assumptions and simplifications made.
Critical appraisal of
individual sources
of evidence§
12
If done, provide a rationale for conducting a critical
appraisal of included sources of evidence; describe the
methods used and how this information was used in any
data synthesis (if appropriate).
Synthesis of results 13 Describe the methods of handling and summarizing the
data that were charted.

SECTION ITEM PRISMA-ScR CHECKLIST ITEM REPORTED
ON PAGE #
RESULTS
Selection of
sources of
evidence
14
Give numbers of sources of evidence screened,
assessed for eligibility, and included in the review, with
reasons for exclusions at each stage, ideally using a flow
diagram.
Characteristics of
sources of
evidence
15 For each source of evidence, present characteristics for
which data were charted and provide the citations.
Critical appraisal
within sources of
evidence
16 If done, present data on critical appraisal of included
sources of evidence (see item 12).
Results of
individual sources
of evidence
17
For each included source of evidence, present the
relevant data that were charted that relate to the review
questions and objectives.
Synthesis of results 18 Summarize and/or present the charting results as they
relate to the review questions and objectives.
DISCUSSION
Summary of
evidence 19
Summarize the main results (including an overview of
concepts, themes, and types of evidence available), link
to the review questions and objectives, and consider the
relevance to key groups.
Limitations 20 Discuss the limitations of the scoping review process.
Conclusions 21
Provide a general interpretation of the results with
respect to the review questions and objectives, as well
as potential implications and/or next steps.
FUNDING
Funding 22
Describe sources of funding for the included sources of
evidence, as well as sources of funding for the scoping
review. Describe the role of the funders of the scoping
review.
JBI = Joanna Briggs Institute; PRISMA-ScR = Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses
extension for Scoping Reviews.
* Where sources of evidence (see second footnote) are compiled from, such as bibliographic databases, social media
platforms, and Web sites.
† A more inclusive/heterogeneous term used to account for the different types of evidence or data sources (e.g.,
quantitative and/or qualitative research, expert opinion, and policy documents) that may be eligible in a scoping
review as opposed to only studies. This is not to be confused with information sources (see first footnote).
‡ The frameworks by Arksey and O'Malley (6) and Levac and colleagues (7) and the JBI guidance (4, 5) refer to the
process of data extraction in a scoping review as data charting.
§ The process of systematically examining research evidence to assess its validity, results, and relevance before
using it to inform a decision. This term is used for items 12 and 19 instead of "risk of bias" (which is more applicable
to systematic reviews of interventions) to include and acknowledge the various sources of evidence that may be used
in a scoping review (e.g., quantitative and/or qualitative research, expert opinion, and policy document).
From: Tricco AC, Lillie E, Zarin W, O'Brien KK, Colquhoun H, Levac D, et al. PRISMA Extension for Scoping Reviews
(PRISMAScR): Checklist and Explanation. Ann Intern Med. 2018;169:467–473. doi: 10.7326/M18-0850. 